<p>When The Software Author&#039;s (TSA) eldest daughter started 1st grade math the TSA could tell she was not going to learn instant recall given the Washington State Common Core (CC) approach. TSA discussed this with her teacher, then decided to write RMM as a complement to the CC. Emphasis on <b>complement</b> because this is not a repudiation of the CC which does have good ways of teaching <i>theory & understanding</i>. But it does not promote arithmetic instant recall and simple algorithmic problem solving.</p>

<p>So the TSA wrote RMM for TSA&#039;s two daughters. Seems to have really helped both, and some other folks. An example was the daughter of a friend. She was in 8th grade, hated math, and got all Fs in math. Talked a bit about this. When the TSA asked her, &#039;What is 9x6?&#039; She took about 20 seconds to answer and was visibly both mouthing and finger counting. The TSA said, &#039;You know B, it is really hard to do fractions & algebra when the simple steps like finding common denominators take minutes of thought.&#039; She was game and worked her way thru RMM to gain good instant recall &amp; algos understanding. Loved math after this. Got all As.</p>

<p>That is, of course, an anecdotal data point and not proof that RMM is great. It does illustrate how the CC can leave kids in tough learning situations because they struggle with instant recall and the application of simple algos. Hard to focus on the math problem when the simple arithmetic steps take so much mental processing.</p>

<p>Recently the TSA began to think about both the power of PWAs, and setting up a FOSS project on Github. The app the TSA wrote for his daughters and <i>friends & family</i> seemed a good option. So here we are.</p>
